From the Conference Center
at Temple Square in Salt Lake
City, we bring you the
general priesthood session
of the 186th Semiannual
General Conference
of The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Music for this
session is provided
by a Melchizedek Priesthood
choir of brethren
from stakes in West Valley
City and Magna, Utah.
President Henry B.
Eyring, First Counselor
in the First Presidency
of the Church,
will conduct this session.
Brethren, we welcome you
to the priesthood session
of the 186th Semiannual
General Conference
of The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Thomas S. Monson, who
presides at the conference,
has asked that I
conduct this session.
These services
are being provided
to priesthood holders in many
locations throughout the world.
The music for this session will
be by a Melchizedek Priesthood
choir of brethren from
stakes in West Valley City
and Magna, Utah, under the
direction of Kenny Wiser,
with Richard Elliott
playing the organ.
The choir will open
this meeting by singing
"Ye Elders of Israel."
The invocation will then
be offered by Elder Paul B.
Pieper of the Seventy.
[MUSIC PLAYING - "YE ELDERS OF
ISRAEL"]
Our Father in Heaven,
we bow our heads tonight
as we've gathered
as Thy sons to learn
how to be better brothers
to each other in our service
and in our quorums
and to learn how
to bless Thy daughters with whom
we've been privileged to serve
and to have be part
of our families.
We're grateful to come and be
taught at the feet of those who
Thou hast designated to
hold the keys of this work
in these latter
days, to be taught
in the doctrine of this
order, this holy order,
after the order of Thy Son.
And to this end, we
ask for Thy Spirit
to be with us, that we can
learn, that we can be taught,
that those who speak and teach
and instruct can be blessed
and inspired to the end
that we can become what
Thou wouldst have us become, in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
The choir will now favor
us with "Love at Home."
After the singing, we will
hear from Elder Jeffrey R.
Holland of the Quorum
of the Twelve Apostles.
He will be followed by
Elder LeGrand R. Curtis
Jr. of the Seventy.
[MUSIC PLAYING - "LOVE AT HOME"]
Thank you, brethren, for that
beautiful, beautiful hymn.
Not long ago a single sister,
whom I will call Molly,
came home from work only
to find two inches of water
covering her entire
basement floor.
Immediately she realized that
her neighbors, with whom she
shared drainage lines, must
have done an inordinate amount
of laundry and bathing because
she got the backed-up water.
After calling a friend
to come and help,
the two began
bailing and mopping.
Just then the doorbell rang.
Her friend cried out,
"It's your home teachers!"
Molly laughed.
"It is the last day of
the month," she replied--
[LAUGHTER]
--"but I can assure you it
is not my home teachers."
With bare feet, wet trousers,
hair up in a bandana,
and a very fashionable
pair of latex gloves,
Molly made her way to the door.
But her stark appearance did
not compare with the stark sight
standing before her eyes.
It was her home teachers!
"You could have knocked me
over with a plumber's friend!"
she later told me.
"This was a home teaching
miracle--the kind the Brethren
share in general
conference talks!"
She went on: "But
just as I was trying
to decide whether to give them
a kiss or hand them a mop,
they said, 'Oh,
Molly, we are sorry.
We can see you are busy.
We don't want to intrude;
we'll come another time.'"
[LAUGHTER]
"And they were gone."
"Who was it?" her friend
called out from the basement.
"I wanted to say, 'It
certainly wasn't the Three
Nephites,'" Molly admitted, "but
I restrained myself and said
very calmly, 'It was
my home teachers,
but they felt this was not
an opportune time to leave
their message.'"
Brethren, may we briefly
examine the priesthood duty
that has been described as "the
Church's first source of help"
to its individuals and families.
Entire forests have
been sacrificed
providing the paper to organize
it and then reorganize it.
A thousand pep talks have been
given trying to encourage it.
Certainly no Freudian
travel agency anywhere
could possibly arrange
the number of guilt trips
this subject has provoked.
[LAUGHTER]
Yet still we struggle
to achieve anywhere
near an acceptable
standard of performance
regarding the Lord's
commandment to "watch over
the church always" through
priesthood home teaching.
Part of the challenge we face
is the changing demographics
of the Church.
We know that.
With our membership now spread
across more than 30,000 wards
and branches located in some
188 nations and territories,
it's much more challenging to
visit the homes of our brothers
and sisters than it was in
the early days of the Church
when neighbor taught
neighbor in something
called "block teaching."
Furthermore, in many
units of the Church,
there is a limited number of
available priesthood bearers
to do home teaching, leaving
those who can serve with
as many as 18 or 20
families--or more--to care for.
There can also be issues of
long distances to travel,
the high cost and low
availability of transportation,
and the extended length of the
local workday and workweek.
Add to these some cultural
taboos against uninvited home
visits and the safety
issues that exist in many
of the world's
neighborhoods--well,
we begin to see the
complexity of the problem.
Brethren, in the
best of all worlds
and in those circumstances
where it can be,
a monthly visit in each
home is still the ideal
the Church will strive for.
But realizing that in many
locations around the world
achieving such an ideal is
not possible and that we cause
those brethren to feel like
failures when we ask them to do
what cannot
realistically be done,
the First Presidency wrote
to the priesthood leaders
of the Church in December of
2001 giving this inspired,
very helpful counsel: "There are
some locations in the Church,"
they wrote, "where ...
home teaching to
every home each month
may not be possible because
of insufficient numbers
of active priesthood brethren
and various other local
challenges."
We've mentioned some of them.
"When such circumstances
prevail," they go on,
"leaders should do
their best to use
the resources they have
available to watch over
and strengthen each member."
Brethren, if in
my ward or branch
I faced these kinds of difficult
circumstances, my Aaronic
Priesthood companion and I would
apply the First Presidency's
counsel (which is
now handbook policy)
in something like this way:
First, however many months
it took to achieve it, we would
pursue the scriptural mandate
to "visit the house of
each member," establishing
a schedule that would get us
to those homes on a calendar
that was both possible
and practical.
Built into that schedule
would be the prioritization
of our available time and
frequency of contacts to those
who needed us the
most--investigators
the missionaries are teaching,
newly baptized converts,
those who are ill, the
lonely, the less active,
single-parent families with
children still at home,
and so forth.
While working
through our schedule
to visit all homes, which may
take some months to accomplish,
we would make other
kinds of contact
with the individuals
and families
on our list via any of the
means the Lord has provided.
Certainly we would watch
for our families at Church
and, as the scripture
says, would "speak one
with another concerning the
welfare of their souls."
In addition, we'd
make phone calls,
send emails and text
messages, even tap out
a greeting through one of the
many forms of social media
available to us.
To help address
special needs, we
might send a scriptural
quote or a line
from a general conference
talk or a Mormon
Message drawn from the wealth
of material on LDS.org.
In the language of
the First Presidency,
we would do the best we
could in the circumstances
we faced with the
resources available to us.
Brethren, the appeal
I am making tonight
is for you to lift your
vision of home teaching.
Please, in newer, better ways,
see yourselves as emissaries
of the Lord to His children.
That means leaving behind
the tradition of a frantic,
law of Moses-like,
end-of-the-month calendar
in which you rush to give a
scripted message from a Church
magazine that the
family has already read.
We would hope, rather,
that you will establish
an era of genuine,
gospel-oriented concern
for each member,
each individual,
watching over and
caring for each other,
addressing spiritual and
temporal needs in any way that
helps.
Now, as for what "counts"
as home teaching, everything
counts, every good thing you
do "counts," so report it all!
Indeed, the report
that matters most
is how you have
blessed and cared
for those within your
stewardship, which
has virtually nothing to
do with a specific calendar
or a particular location.
What matters is that
you love your people
and are fulfilling the
commandment to "watch over
the church always."
On May 30 of last year,
my friend Troy Russell
pulled his pickup truck
slowly out of his garage
on his way to donate goods to
the local Deseret Industries.
He felt his back tire
roll over a bump.
Thinking some item had
fallen off the truck,
he got out only to find his
precious nine-year-old son
Austen lying face
down on the pavement.
The screams, the priesthood
blessing, the paramedic crew,
the hospital staff--they were,
in this case, to no avail.
Austen was gone.
Unable to sleep, unable to find
peace, Troy was inconsolable.
He said it was more
than he could bear
and that he simply
could not go on.
But into that agonizing breach
came three redeeming forces.
First was the love
and reassuring spirit
of our Father in Heaven,
a presence communicated
through the Holy Ghost that
comforted Troy, taught him,
loved him, whispered that God
knows everything about losing
a beautiful and perfect Son.
Second was his wife, Deedra,
who held Troy in her arms
and loved him and reminded him
that she too had lost that son
and she was determined not
to lose a husband also.
Third in this story is
John Manning, home teacher
extraordinaire.
I frankly don't know
on what schedule John
and his junior companion made
visits to the Russell home,
or what message was given
when they got there,
or how they reported
the experience.
What I do know is that last
spring Brother Manning reached
down and picked Troy
Russell up off the tragedy
of that driveway just as if he
were picking up little Austen
himself.
Like the home teacher
or watchman or brother
in the gospel he
was supposed to be,
John simply took over
the priesthood care
and keeping of Troy Russell.
He started by saying,
"Troy, Austen wants you back
on your feet--including on the
basketball court--so I will be
here every morning at 5:15 a.m.
Be ready because I don't want
to have to come in and get you
up--and I know Deedra doesn't
want me to do that either."
"I didn't want to go,"
Troy told me later,
"because I had always
taken Austen with me
on those mornings and
I knew the memories
would be just too painful.
But John insisted, so I went.
From that first day back, we
talked--or rather I talked
and John listened.
I talked the entire
drive to the church
and then the entire drive home.
Sometimes I talked while
we parked in the driveway
and watched the sun
rise over Las Vegas.
At first it was difficult,
but over time I realized I had
found my strength in the form
of a very slow 6'2" Church ball
player with an absolutely
pathetic jump shot,
but who loved me and listened
to me until the sun finally rose
again on my life."
My brethren of the
holy priesthood,
when we speak of home teaching
or watchcare or personal
priesthood ministry--call it
what you will--this is what we
are talking about.
We are asking you,
as home teachers,
to be God's emissaries to His
children, to love and care
and pray for the people you are
assigned, as we love and care
and pray for you.
May you be vigilant in tending
the flock of God in ways
consistent with your
circumstances, I pray,
in the name of the Good Shepherd
of us all, whose witness I am,
even the Lord
Jesus Christ, amen.
On June 14, 1989, due
to some misinformation
about the Church, the
government of Ghana
banned all activities
of The Church
of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints
within that African country.
The government seized
all Church property,
and all missionary
activity stopped.
The members of the Church,
who refer to this period
as "the freeze," did their
best to live the gospel
without branch meetings or
the support of missionaries.
There are many inspiring stories
about how the members kept
the light of the gospel shining
by worshipping in their homes
and looking after each other
as home and visiting teachers.
Eventually the
misunderstanding was resolved,
and on November 29, 1990, the
freeze ended and normal Church
activities resumed.
Since then there have been
excellent relationships
between the Church and
the government of Ghana.
Members who lived
through the freeze
are quick to point
out the blessings that
came from that unusual period.
The faith of many
was strengthened
through the adversity
that they faced.
But one blessing of the
freeze came in an unusual way.
Nicholas Ofosu-Hene
was a young policeman
assigned to guard an LDS
meetinghouse during the freeze.
His duty was to watch over
the building at night.
When Nicholas first arrived
at the meetinghouse,
he saw that things had
been scattered around,
with papers, books, and
furniture in disarray.
In the midst of the
disorder, he saw
a copy of the Book of Mormon.
He tried ignoring
the book because he
had been told it was evil.
But he felt strangely
attracted to it.
Finally, Nicholas could
ignore the book no longer.
He picked it up.
He felt impelled to
start reading it.
He read through the
night, tears running down
his cheeks as he read.
The first time he picked it
up, he read all of 1 Nephi.
The second time, he
read all of 2 Nephi.
When he got to 2 Nephi chapter
25, he read the following:
"And we talk of Christ,
we rejoice in Christ,
we preach of Christ,
we prophesy of Christ,
and we write according
to our prophecies,
that our children may know
to what source they may look
for a remission of their sins."
At that point, Nicholas
felt the Spirit
so strongly that
he started sobbing.
He realized that in the
course of his reading
he had received several
spiritual promptings
that this book was
scripture, the most correct
he had ever read.
He realized that the
Latter-day Saints,
contrary to what he
had heard, strongly
believe in Jesus Christ.
After the freeze ended and
missionaries returned to Ghana,
Nicholas, his wife, and his
children joined the Church.
When I saw him last year,
he was a police commander
and was serving as the
president of the Tamale Ghana
District of the Church.
He says: "The Church has
transformed my life. ...
I thank the Almighty God for
leading me into this gospel."
Alibert Davies,
another Ghanaian,
accompanied a friend to
one of our meetinghouses,
where the friend had
a presidency meeting.
While he waited for
his friend, Alibert
read a book he found nearby.
When the meeting ended, Alibert
wanted to take the book home.
He was given permission not
only to take that book but also
a copy of the Book of Mormon.
When he got home, he started
reading the Book of Mormon.
He could not put it down.
He read by candlelight
until 3:00 a.m.
He did that for several nights,
overwhelmed by what he read
and what he felt. Alibert is
now a member of the Church.
Angelo Scarpulla started
his theological studies
in his native Italy
when he was 10.
He eventually became a
priest and served his church
with devotion.
At a certain point his
faith started to waver,
and he sought and
received opportunities
for further study.
The more he studied, however,
the more concerned he became.
What he read and
felt convinced him
that there had been
a general apostasy
from the true doctrine taught
by Jesus and the early Apostles.
Angelo searched for God's true
religion in various faiths
but was left unsatisfied
for many years.
One day he encountered
two members of the Church
who were helping the
missionaries find more people
to teach.
He felt drawn to them
and joyfully listened
to their message.
Angelo willingly accepted a
copy of the Book of Mormon.
That evening he started
reading the book.
He felt overcome with joy.
Through the Spirit, God gave
Angelo an inner assurance
that in the Book
of Mormon he would
find the truth for which he had
been seeking for many years.
Sweet feelings
flooded through him.
What he read and what he
learned from the missionaries
confirmed his
conclusion that there
had been a general
apostasy, but he also
learned that God's true Church
had been restored to the earth.
A short while later, Angelo
was baptized into the Church.
When I first met him, he was the
president of the Rimini Italy
Branch of our Church.
What Nicholas,
Alibert, and Angelo
experienced with
the Book of Mormon
is reminiscent of Parley
P. Pratt's experience:
"I opened [the] book
with eagerness. ...
I read all day," he wrote.
"Eating was a burden,
I had no desire for food;
sleep was a burden when ...
night came, for I
preferred reading to sleep.
"As I read, the spirit
of the Lord was upon me,
and I knew and comprehended
that the book was
true, as plainly and manifestly
as a man comprehends and knows
that he exists.
My joy was ...
full, as it were, and I rejoiced
sufficiently to more than pay
me for all the sorrows,
sacrifices and toils
of my life."
Some people have such
powerful experience
with the Book of Mormon the
first time they open it,
but for others the witness
of the truthfulness
comes more gradually as
they read and pray about it.
That was my case.
I first read the Book of Mormon
as a teenage seminary student.
This is the copy of the
Book of Mormon I read.
I cannot tell you the exact
time or place that it happened,
but somewhere
during that reading,
I started sensing something.
There was a warmth
and a spirit that came
every time I opened the book.
The feeling grew as I
continued my reading.
That feeling
continues to this day.
Every time I open
the Book of Mormon,
it's like turning on a
switch--the Spirit flows
into my heart and soul.
For yet others, a testimony
of the Book of Mormon
comes more slowly, after
much study and prayer.
I have a friend who read
the Book of Mormon searching
to know if it was true.
He applied the
invitation in Moroni
to ask God with a sincere
heart, with real intent
and faith in Christ, if
the Book of Mormon is true.
But he did not immediately get
the promised spiritual answer.
However, one day he was deep in
thought, driving down the road.
The Spirit testified
to him of the truth
of the Book of Mormon.
So happy and overwhelmed was
he that he rolled down the car
window and yelled to
no one in particular
and yet to all the
world, "It's true!"
Whether our testimony
of the Book of Mormon
comes the first time we open
it or over a period of time,
it will influence
us all of our days
if we continue to read it
and apply its teachings.
President Ezra Taft Benson
taught: "There is ...
power in the book which will
begin to flow into your lives
the moment you begin a serious
study of the Book of Mormon.
You will find greater
power to resist temptation.
You will find the power
to avoid deception.
You will find the power to stay
on the strait and narrow path."
I encourage everyone receiving
this message, including
the Aaronic Priesthood bearers
convened in this meeting
tonight, to discover the
power of the Book of Mormon.
As President Thomas S.
Monson has encouraged:
"Read the Book of Mormon.
Ponder its teachings.
Ask Heavenly Father
if it is true."
During that process you
will feel the Spirit of God
in your lives.
That Spirit will be
part of your testimony
that the Book of Mormon is
true, that Joseph Smith was
a prophet of God, and
that The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints is
God's true Church on the earth
today.
That testimony will help
you resist temptation.
It will prepare you for "the
great call of diligence ...
to labor in the
vineyards of the Lord."
It will stand as a sure anchor
when accusations or slanderous
statements are used to
challenge your faith and will be
a rock-solid foundation when you
are challenged with questions
you cannot answer,
at least immediately.
You will be able to
discern truth from error,
and you will feel the
assurance of the Holy Ghost
reconfirming your testimony
over and over again
as you continue to
read the Book of Mormon
throughout your lives.
I also encourage the
parents hearing or reading
this message to make
the Book of Mormon
an important part of your home.
As our children were growing,
we read from the Book of Mormon
as we ate breakfast.
This is the bookmark
that we used.
On the front is a quote from
President Benson promising
that God would pour
out a blessing upon us
as we read the Book of Mormon.
On the back is this promise
from President Marion
G. Romney, formerly a counselor
in the First Presidency:
"I feel certain that
if, in our homes,
parents will read from
the Book of Mormon
prayerfully and regularly,
both by themselves
and with their children, the
spirit of that great book
will come to permeate our homes
and all who dwell therein.
...
The spirit of
contention will depart.
Parents will counsel
their children
in greater love and wisdom.
Children will be more
responsive and submissive
to the counsel of their parents.
Righteousness will increase.
Faith, hope, and charity--the
pure love of Christ--will
abound in our homes and lives,
bringing in their wake peace,
joy, and happiness."
Now, many years after our
children have left home
and are raising
their own families,
we can see clearly
the fulfillment
of President Romney's promise.
Our family is far
from perfect, but we
can testify of the power
of the Book of Mormon
and the blessings that reading
it has brought and continues
to bring into the lives
of our whole family.
The greatest power
of the Book of Mormon
is its impact in bringing
us closer to Jesus Christ.
It is a strong witness of Him
and His redeeming mission.
Through it we come to
understand the majesty
and power of His Atonement.
It teaches His doctrine clearly.
And because of the
magnificent chapters
describing the visit of the
risen Christ to the Nephites,
we see and experience Him
loving, blessing, and teaching
those people and
come to understand
that He will do the
same for us if we come
to Him by living His gospel.
Brethren, I testify of the
power in the Book of Mormon.
Whether reading it in
English, Italian, or French,
in print or on an
electronic device,
I have found the
same wonderful spirit
flowing from its chapters
and verses into my life.
I testify of its ability to
draw us closer to Christ.
In the name of
Jesus Christ, amen.
On a signal from the
conductor, the congregation
will stand and join the choir
in singing "Now Let Us Rejoice."
Following the singing, we will
hear from President Dieter F.
Uchtdorf, Second Counselor
in the First Presidency.
It will then be my
privilege to address you.
[MUSIC PLAYING - "NOW LET US
REJOICE"]
What a beautiful hymn.
Thank you.
Among the most unforgettable
characters in scripture
is Alma the Younger.
Though he was the son
of a great prophet,
he lost his way for
a time and became
a "wicked and an
idolatrous man."
For reasons we can only guess,
he actively opposed his father
and sought to
destroy the Church.
And because of his eloquence
and persuasiveness,
he experienced great success.
But Alma's life changed
when an angel of the Lord
appeared to him and spoke
with a voice of thunder.
For three days and three nights,
Alma "was racked with eternal
torment, ...
even with the pains
of a damned soul."
And then, somehow, a
faint memory brought light
to the darkness of his mind--an
eternal truth taught by his
father: that Jesus Christ would
come "to atone for the sins
of the world."
Alma had long ago
rejected such concepts,
but now his "mind caught
hold upon this thought,"
and he humbly, earnestly
placed his trust
in Christ's atoning power.
When Alma emerged
from this experience,
he was a changed man.
From that moment on,
he devoted his life
to undoing the
damage he had caused.
He is a powerful
example of repentance,
forgiveness, and
enduring faithfulness.
Alma was eventually chosen
to succeed his father
as head of the Church of God.
Every citizen of
the Nephite nation
must have known Alma's story.
The Twitters, Instagrams,
and Facebooks of his day
would have been filled with
images and stories about him.
He probably appeared regularly
on the cover of the Zarahemla
Weekly and was the subject
of editorials and network
specials.
In short, he was perhaps the
most well-known celebrity
of his day.
But when Alma saw that his
people were forgetting God
and lifting themselves up in
pride and contention--that
sounds almost like our times--he
chose to resign from public
office and dedicate himself
"wholly to the high priesthood
of the holy order of God,"
preaching repentance among
the Nephites.
At first, Alma had
great success--that is,
until he traveled to
the city of Ammonihah.
The people of that
city were well aware
that Alma was no longer
their political leader,
and they had little respect
for his priesthood authority.
They reviled him, ridiculed him,
and cast him out of their city.
Heartbroken, Alma turned his
back on the city Ammonihah.
But an angel told him to return.
Just think about it:
he was told to return
to the people who hated him and
were hostile toward the Church.
It was a dangerous and perhaps
life-threatening assignment.
But Alma did not hesitate.
He "returned speedily."
Alma had been fasting many
days when he entered the city.
There he asked a
complete stranger
if he would "give to an humble
servant of God something
to eat."
This man's name was Amulek.
Amulek was a well-to-do,
well-known citizen
of Ammonihah.
Although he came from a
long line of believers,
his own faith had grown cold.
He later confessed, "I
was called many times
and I would not hear; therefore
I knew concerning these things,
yet I would not
[believe]; therefore I
went on rebelling against God."
But God was preparing
Amulek, and when he met Alma,
he welcomed the Lord's
servant into his home,
where Alma stayed for many days.
During that time, Amulek opened
his heart to Alma's message,
and a marvelous
change came over him.
From then on, Amulek
not only believed;
he became a champion of truth.
When Alma went out again
to teach among the people
of Ammonihah, he had a second
witness at his side--Amulek,
one of their own.
The events that
followed constitute
one of the most bittersweet
narratives in all of scripture.
You can read about it
in Alma chapters 8-16.
Today I would like to ask you
to consider two questions:
First: "What can I
learn from Alma?"
Second: "How am I like Amulek?"
Let me begin by asking
all past, current,
or future leaders in the
Church of Jesus Christ,
"What can you learn from Alma?"
Alma was an exceptionally
gifted and capable man.
It may have been easy
to think that he did not
need anyone's help.
Nevertheless, what did Alma do
when he returned to Ammonihah?
Alma found Amulek and
asked him for help.
And Alma received help.
For whatever reason,
sometimes we as leaders
are reluctant to find
and ask our Amuleks.
Perhaps we think that we can do
the work better by ourselves,
or we are reluctant to
inconvenience others,
or we assume that others
would not want to participate.
Too often we hesitate
to invite people
to use their God-given
talents and engage
in the great work of salvation.
Think of the Savior--did He
begin to establish His Church
all alone?
No.
His message was not "Stand back.
I'll handle this."
Rather, it was
"Come, follow me."
He inspired, invited,
instructed, and then
trusted His followers
to "do the things which
ye have seen me do."
In this way, Jesus Christ built
up not only His Church but also
His servants.
In whatever position you
currently serve--whether you
are a deacons quorum
president, a stake president,
or an Area President--to
be successful,
you must find your Amuleks.
It may be someone who is
unassuming or even invisible
within your congregations.
It may be someone who seems
unwilling or unable to serve.
Your Amuleks may be young
or old, men or women,
inexperienced, tired, or
not active in the Church.
But what may not be
seen at first sight
is that they are
hoping to hear from you
the words, "The Lord needs you!
I need you!"
Deep down, many want
to serve their God.
They want to be an
instrument in His hands.
They want to thrust
in their sickle
and strive with their
might to prepare the earth
for the return of our Savior.
They want to build His Church.
But they are reluctant to begin.
Often they wait to be asked.
I invite you to think of those
in your branches and wards,
in your missions and stakes, who
need to hear a call to action.
The Lord has been working
with them--preparing them,
softening their hearts.
Find them by seeing
with your heart.
Reach out to them.
Teach them.
Inspire them.
Ask them.
Share with them the words
of the angel to Amulek--that
the blessing of the Lord shall
rest upon them and their house.
You may be surprised to discover
a valiant servant of the Lord
who otherwise would
have remained hidden.
While some of us should
be looking for an Amulek,
for others the question might
be "How am I like Amulek?"
Perhaps you have,
over the years,
become less committed
in your discipleship.
Perhaps the fire of your
testimony has dimmed.
Perhaps you have
distanced yourself
from the body of Christ.
Perhaps you have become
disillusioned or even angry.
Like some of the ancient
Church of Ephesus,
you may have left your
"first love"--the sublime,
eternal truths of the
gospel of Jesus Christ.
Perhaps, like Amulek,
you know in your heart
that the Lord has "called [you]
many times," but you "would not
hear."
Nevertheless, the Lord sees in
you what He saw in Amulek--the
potential of a valiant servant
with an important work to do
and with a testimony to share.
There is service
that no one else
can give in quite the same way.
The Lord has trusted you
with His holy priesthood,
which holds the divine potential
to bless and lift others.
Listen with your
heart and follow
the promptings of the Spirit.
I was touched by the journey of
one brother who asked himself,
"When the Lord
calls, will I hear?"
I will call this
fine brother David.
David converted to the
Church some 30 years ago.
He served a mission and
then attended law school.
While he was
studying and working
to support a young family, he
came across some information
about the Church
that confused him.
The more he read these negative
materials, the more unsettled
he became.
Eventually he asked to
have his name removed
from the records of the Church.
From that time on, like
Alma in his rebellious days,
David spent a great
deal of time debating
with members of the
Church, engaging
in online conversations
with the purpose
of challenging their beliefs.
He was very good at this.
One of the members he debated
with I will call Jacob.
Jacob was always kind
and respectful to David,
but he was also firm in
his defense of the Church.
Over the years, David and Jacob
developed a mutual respect
and friendship.
What David did not know is that
Jacob was praying for David
and did so faithfully
for more than a decade.
He even placed his
friend's name for prayer
in the temples of the Lord and
hoped that David's heart would
be softened.
Over time, slowly,
David did change.
He began to remember
with fondness
the spiritual
experiences he once had,
and he remembered the
happiness he had felt when
he was a member of the Church.
Like Alma, David
had not completely
forgotten the gospel truth
he had once embraced.
And like Amulek, David felt
the Lord reaching out to him.
David was now a partner in a
law firm--a prestigious job.
He had developed a reputation
as a critic of the Church,
and he had too much pride
to ask to be readmitted.
Nevertheless, he continued to
feel the pull of the Shepherd.
He took to heart the scripture
"If any of you lack wisdom,
let him ask of God, that
giveth to all men liberally,
and upbraideth not; and
it shall be given him."
He prayed, "Dear God, I want
to be a Latter-day Saint again,
but I have questions
that need answers."
He began to listen to the
whisperings of the Spirit
and to inspired
answers of friends,
as he never had before.
One after another, his
doubts turned to faith
until finally he realized
that, once again, he
could feel a testimony of Jesus
Christ and His restored Church.
At that point, he
knew that he would
be able to overcome his pride
and do whatever it took to be
accepted back into the Church.
Eventually, David entered
the waters of baptism
and then began counting
down the days until he could
have his blessings restored.
I am happy to report that this
past summer, David's blessings
were restored to him.
He is again fully
participating in the Church
and serving as a Gospel
Doctrine teacher in his ward.
He takes every
opportunity to speak
to others about
his transformation,
to heal the damage he
caused, and to bear
testimony of the gospel and
the Church of Jesus Christ.
My dear brothers, my dear
friends, let us seek out,
find, inspire, and
rely upon the Amuleks
in our wards and stakes.
There are many Amuleks
in the Church today.
Perhaps you know one.
Perhaps you are one.
Perhaps the Lord has
been whispering to you,
urging you to return
to your first love,
contribute your
talents, and worthily
exercise the priesthood
and serve side
by side with your fellow
Saints in drawing closer
to Jesus Christ and building the
kingdom of God here on earth.
Our beloved Savior
knows where you are.
He knows your heart.
He wants to rescue you.
He will reach out to you.
Just open your heart to Him.
It is my hope that those who
have strayed from the path
of discipleship--even by only
a few degrees--will contemplate
the goodness and grace of
God, see with their hearts,
learn from Alma and Amulek, and
hear the life-changing words
of the Savior:
"Come, follow me."
I urge you to heed His
call, for surely you will
receive the harvest of heaven.
The blessings of the Lord will
rest upon you and your house.
Of this I testify and
leave you my blessing
as an Apostle of the Lord, in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
I feel blessed to
be in this meeting
with those who hold
the priesthood of God.
The devotion, the faith,
and the selfless service
of this body of men and
boys are a modern miracle.
I speak tonight to priesthood
holders, old and young,
united in wholehearted service
to the Lord Jesus Christ.
The Lord grants
His power to those
in all priesthood offices
who worthily serve
in their priesthood duties.
Wilford Woodruff, as
President of the Church,
described his experience in
the offices of the priesthood:
"I heard the first sermon I
ever heard in this Church.
The next day I was baptized. ...
I was ordained a Teacher.
My mission immediately
commenced. ...
I went through that whole
mission as a Teacher. ...
At the conference I was
ordained a Priest. ...
After I was ordained a
Priest I was sent ...
on [another] mission to
the southern country.
That was in the fall of 1834.
I had a companion with
me, and we started out
without purse and scrip.
I traveled alone a good many
miles and preached the Gospel,
and I baptized a number
that I could not confirm
in the Church, because
I was only a Priest. ...
I traveled some time
preaching the Gospel before I
was ordained an Elder."
Now, he said, "I have been
some fifty-four years a member
of the Twelve Apostles.
I have traveled with
that and other quorums
now for sixty years."
And he went on to say: "I
want to say to this assembly
that I was just as much
sustained by the power of God
while holding the
office of a Teacher,
and especially while officiating
in the vineyard as a Priest,
as I ever was as an Apostle.
There is no difference in this
so long as we do our duty."
That wonderful spiritual
possibility of no difference
is suggested in the Lord's
description of the Aaronic
Priesthood as an "appendage"
of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
The word appendage means
the two are connected.
This connection is important
to the priesthood becoming
the force and the blessing
it can be, in this world
and forever, for it
"is without beginning
of days or end of years."
The connection is a simple one.
The Aaronic Priesthood
prepares young men
for an even more sacred trust.
"The power and
authority of the higher,
or Melchizedek
Priesthood, is to hold
the keys of all the spiritual
blessings of the church--
"To have the
privilege of receiving
the mysteries of the
kingdom of heaven,
to have the heavens
opened unto them,
to commune with the
general assembly
and church of the Firstborn,
and to enjoy the communion
and presence of God the
Father, and Jesus the mediator
of the new covenant."
Those priesthood keys
are fully exercised
by only one man at a time,
the President and presiding
high priest of
the Lord's Church.
Then, by the
President's delegation,
every man who holds the
Melchizedek Priesthood
can be endowed with
authority and the privilege
of speaking and acting in
the name of the Almighty.
There is infinity to that power.
It is concerned
with life and death,
with family and the Church, with
the great nature of God Himself
and His eternal work.
The Lord is preparing the
Aaronic Priesthood holder
to become an elder
serving with faith, power,
and gratitude in that glorious
Melchizedek Priesthood.
For elders, deep
gratitude will be
essential to playing your part
in full priesthood service.
You will remember your days as a
deacon, teacher, or priest when
those who held the
higher priesthood
reached back to lift
and encourage you
in your priesthood journey.
Every holder of the Melchizedek
Priesthood has such memories,
but the sense of gratitude may
have diminished with the years.
My hope tonight is to
rekindle that feeling
and with it a determination
to give all you can
the same kind of help
you once received.
I remember a bishop
who treated me
as if I was already
what I had the potential
to become in priesthood power.
He called me one Sunday
when I was a priest.
He said he needed me
to be his companion
to visit some
members of our ward.
He made it sound as if I was
his only hope for success.
He didn't need me.
He had excellent counselors
in his bishopric.
But we visited a penniless
and hungry widow.
He wanted me to help
him reach her heart,
challenge her to make
and use a budget,
and promise her
that she could rise
to be in a position not
only to take care of herself
but to help others.
We went to comfort, next,
two little girls living
in a difficult situation.
As we walked away, the
bishop said quietly to me,
"Those children will never
forget that we came to them."
At the next house, I saw how
to invite a less-active man
to come back to the
Lord by convincing him
the ward members needed him.
That bishop was a
Melchizedek Priesthood holder
who was raising my sights and
giving me a boost by example.
He taught me to have the
power and the courage
to go anywhere in
service for the Lord.
He is long gone to his reward,
but I still remember him
because he reached
down to lift me up
when I was an inexperienced
Aaronic Priesthood holder.
I learned later that he saw
in me a future priesthood path
of greater responsibilities,
then beyond my own vision.
My father did the
same thing for me.
He was a seasoned
and wise holder
of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Once he was asked by an
Apostle to write a short note
about the scientific evidence
for the age of the earth.
He wrote it carefully,
knowing that some
who might read it had strong
feelings that the earth was
much younger than the
scientific evidence suggested.
I still remember my father
handing me what he had written
and saying to me, "Hal, you
have the spiritual wisdom
to know if I should send this
to the apostles and prophets."
I can't remember much
of what the paper said,
but I will carry with
me forever the gratitude
I felt for a great
Melchizedek Priesthood
holder who saw in me spiritual
wisdom that I could not see.
One night, some
years later, after I
had been ordained an
Apostle, I was in Japan
with the prophet of God.
He called me on
the phone and asked
me to read something
that had been
written about Church doctrine.
He had spent the night reading
the chapters of a book.
He said with a chuckle, "I
can't get through all of this.
You shouldn't be resting
while I'm working."
And then he used
almost the same words
my father had years
before: "Hal, you are
the one who should read this.
You will know if it is
right to publish it."
That same pattern of a
Melchizedek Priesthood holder
raising sights and
giving confidence
came one night at
a speech festival
sponsored by the Church.
I was 17 years of age.
I was asked to speak
to a large audience.
I had no idea what
was expected of me.
I wasn't given a
subject, and so I
prepared a talk that
was way beyond what I
knew about the gospel.
As I spoke, I had
a sinking feeling.
I realized I had made a mistake.
I can still remember,
after I spoke,
my feeling of having failed.
The next and final speaker
was Elder Matthew Cowley
of the Quorum of
the Twelve Apostles.
He was a great orator--beloved
across the Church.
I still remember sitting
there next to him,
looking up at him from my seat.
As he stood at the rostrum,
he began in a powerful voice.
He said that my speech
had made him feel that he
was at a great conference.
He smiled as he said it.
My feelings of failure left
and were followed by confidence
that I might someday become
what he seemed to think I
already was.
The memory of that
night still leads
me to listen carefully
when an Aaronic Priesthood
holder speaks.
Because of what Elder
Cowley did for me,
I always expect that I
will hear the word of God.
I am seldom disappointed
and often amazed,
and I can't help but
smile, as Elder Cowley did.
Many things may help
strengthen our younger brothers
to rise up in the
priesthood, but nothing
will be more powerful than our
helping them develop the faith
and confidence that they
can draw on the power of God
in their priesthood service.
That faith and confidence
won't stay with them
from a single
experience of being
lifted by even the most gifted
Melchizedek Priesthood holder.
The ability to draw
on those powers
must be cultivated by many
expressions of confidence
from those who are more
experienced in the priesthood.
The Aaronic Priesthood holders
will also need daily and even
hourly encouragement and
correction from the Lord
Himself through the Holy Ghost.
That will be available
to them as they
choose to remain worthy of it.
It will depend upon the
choices they will make.
That is why we must teach
by example and by testimony
that the words of the great
Melchizedek Priesthood leader
King Benjamin are true.
They are the words
of love spoken
in the name of the Lord,
whose priesthood this is.
King Benjamin teaches
what is required of us
to remain pure enough to
receive the encouragement
and correction of the Lord:
"And finally, I cannot tell you
all the things whereby ye may
commit sin; for there are
divers ways and means,
even so many that I
cannot number them.
"But this much I can tell
you," said King Benjamin,
"that if ye do not watch
yourselves, and your thoughts,
and your words, and
your deeds, and observe
the commandments of God, and
continue in the faith of what
ye have heard concerning
the coming of our Lord,
even unto the end of your
lives, ye must perish.
And now, O man, remember,
and perish not."
We all are aware
of the fiery darts
of the enemy of
righteousness being
sent like a terrible wind
against the young priesthood
holders we love so much.
To us they seem like the
stripling warriors, who called
themselves the sons of Helaman.
They can survive, like
those young warriors did,
if they keep themselves safe, as
King Benjamin urged them to do.
The sons of Helaman
did not doubt.
They fought bravely
and came off conquerors
because they believed the
words of their mothers.
We understand the power of
the faith of a loving mother.
Mothers provide that great
support to their sons today.
But we holders of the
priesthood can and must
add to that support
with our determination
to answer the charge
that as we are converted,
we are to reach down to
strengthen our brethren.
My prayer is that every
Melchizedek Priesthood
holder will accept the
opportunity offered
by the Lord:
"And if any man among you
be strong in the Spirit,
let him take with
him him that is weak,
that he may be edified
in all meekness,
that he may become strong also.
"Therefore, take
with you those who
are ordained unto the
lesser priesthood,
and send them before you
to make appointments,
and to prepare the way,
and to fill appointments
that you yourselves
are not able to fill.
"Behold, this is the way that
mine apostles, in ancient days,
built up my church unto me."
You priesthood leaders and
fathers of Aaronic Priesthood
holders can work miracles.
You can help the Lord fill
the ranks of faithful elders
with young men who accept
the call to preach the gospel
and do it with confidence.
You will see many
you have lifted
and encouraged stay faithful,
marry worthily in the temple,
and in turn lift
and prepare others.
It will not take new activity
programs, improved teaching
materials, or
better social media.
It will not require any call
beyond what you have now.
The oath and covenant
of the priesthood
gives you power,
authority, and direction.
I pray you will go home
and study carefully
the oath and covenant of the
priesthood, found in Doctrine
and Covenants section 84.
All of us hope
that more young men
will have experiences
like Wilford Woodruff, who
as an Aaronic Priesthood holder
taught the gospel of Jesus
Christ with converting power.
I pray that we will
rise to our call
to lift others to prepare them
for their glorious service.
I thank with all my heart
the wonderful people
who have lifted me and shown
me how to love and lift others.
I testify that
President Thomas S.
Monson holds all the keys
of the priesthood on earth
at this time.
I bear witness that he,
over a lifetime of service,
has been an example
for us all of reaching
to lift others as a holder of
the Melchizedek Priesthood.
I am personally grateful for the
way he has lifted me and shown
me how to lift others.
God the Father lives.
Jesus is the Christ.
This is His Church and kingdom.
This is His priesthood.
I know this for myself by
the power of the Holy Ghost.
In the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ, amen.
Brethren, we are grateful for
your attendance this evening.
We likewise thank the
Melchizedek Priesthood choir
for the inspiring music they
have provided and acknowledge
all those who have assisted in
preparing for these proceedings
in any way.
The concluding speaker
for this session
will be our beloved prophet,
President Thomas S. Monson.
Following President
Monson's remarks,
the choir will
close this meeting
by singing "You Can Make
the Pathway Bright."
The benediction will then
be offered by Elder Bruce D.
Porter of the Seventy.
Tonight, brethren, I
pray for the guidance
of our Heavenly Father as I
share my message with you.
In 1833 the Lord revealed
to the Prophet Joseph Smith
a plan for healthy living.
That plan is found in the
89th section of the Doctrine
and Covenants and is known
as the Word of Wisdom.
It gives specific direction
regarding the food we eat,
and it prohibits the
use of substances which
are harmful to our bodies.
Those who are obedient to
the Lord's commandments
and who faithfully
observe the Word of Wisdom
are promised
particular blessings,
among which are good health
and added physical stamina.
Recently I read the true account
of a dramatic manifestation
concerning these promises.
A faithful member of the
Church, John A. Larsen,
served during World War II in
the United States Coast Guard
on the ship USS Cambria.
During a battle in
the Philippines,
word came of an approaching
squadron of bombers
and kamikaze fighter planes.
Orders were given for
immediate evacuation.
Since the USS Cambria
was already gone,
John and three companions
gathered their gear and hurried
to the beach, hoping for a lift
out to one of the departing
ships.
Fortunately, a landing
craft picked them up
and sped toward the last
ship leaving the bay.
The men on that departing
ship, in an effort
to evacuate as quickly as
possible, were busy on deck
and only had time to throw
ropes to the four men,
that they might hopefully be
able to climb to the deck.
John, with a heavy radio
strapped to his back,
found himself dangling at
the end of a 40-foot rope
at the side of a ship
headed out to the open sea.
He began pulling
himself up, hand over
hand, knowing that
if he lost his grip,
he would almost
certainly perish.
After climbing only
a third of the way,
his arms burned with pain.
He had become so
weak that he felt
he could no longer hold on.
With his strength depleted,
as he grimly contemplated his
fate, John silently
cried unto God,
telling Him that he had always
kept the Word of Wisdom and had
lived a clean life--and he now
desperately needed the promise
and the blessing
of the priesthood.
John later said that as
he finished his prayer,
he felt a great
surge of strength.
He began climbing once again
and fairly flew up the rope.
When he reached the deck,
his breathing was normal
and not the least bit labored.
The blessings of added
health and strength
and stamina promised in the
Word of Wisdom had been his.
He gave thanks to
his Heavenly Father
then and throughout the
remainder of his life
for the answer to his
desperate prayer for help.
Brethren, may we care for
our bodies and our minds
by observing the principles set
forth in the Word of Wisdom,
a divinely provided plan.
With all my heart
and soul I testify
of the glorious blessings
which await us as we do.
That this may be so,
I pray in the name
of our Lord and Savior,
Jesus Christ the Lord, amen.
[MUSIC PLAYING - "YOU CAN MAKE
THE PATHWAY BRIGHT"]
Our Father in
Heaven, we thank Thee
for the spirit of fellowship,
peace, and pure truth
that we have felt at
this priesthood session
this evening.
We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet,
even for our beloved
President Thomas S. Monson.
And we thank Thee for
his noble counselors
and for the other Brethren
who lead Thy Church, both here
at the general
level of the Church
and throughout the world,
in every stake, branch,
and quorum of the Church.
We thank Thee, Father in
Heaven, for the restored gospel
and for the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
We humbly pray that as we
go forth from this meeting
this evening, that
we may go forth
with the spirit of
determination to do Thy will,
to keep Thy commandments, and
to serve Thee with faithfulness.
We pray that we may return
home to our families,
to our loved ones, our
wives and children,
in a spirit of peace
and love and might ever
manifest it to them.
We thank Thee, Father, for
Thy Beloved Son, our Redeemer,
the Lord Jesus Christ.
We pray that we may ever
stand as witnesses of Him
at all times, in all
places, and in all things.
For these many
blessings we thank Thee,
and we say these things
humbly in the holy name
of Jesus Christ, amen.